Favorite Linux distros in 2020

18.04-20.0* I would recommend this distribution to anyone who is new to Linux and wants a really stable working distro right from the beginning. I recommend using an encrypted LUKS setup for your hard drive. Another idea is to only encrypt your home or root directory. I have been using 18.04. on my MacBook 2009 for months on end. I usually try to install the mininual version because some distributions can be resource heavy. The computer hardware is over exerting itself to run almost
unneccessary processes. This minimal installation in turn allows your hardware processing power to be used else where. Ubuntu 18.04 comes with a variety of preinstall processes (/etc). The package manager that comes with Ubuntu is the aptitude (apt-get) manager. 

Manjaro
I am a fan of this light minimalist distribution. It seems to be a derivative of the Parrot distribution. Parrot is used more so for law enforcement/gov agencies so if you dont want to be put on a watch list id stay away from Parrot and Kali Linux. A big issues I've come across with the Manjaro distro is that the LUKS encryption for harddrives does not hold it's weight. At bootup the distribution requires the passkey, once entered it spits out a message saying "Access denied" and I have had tthe

distro also only require the encryption key only once. For this reason, I feel that the Ubuntu distro is more secure than Manjaro. The Gnome verison of this seems to work better for my MacOS. I also enjoy the fact that Manjaro has extensions available. The distribution also gives you the ability to automate your startup but easily starting apps/software. The package manager GUI is excellent as well to see all the current packages with the option to easily delete them. I almost always delete
bluetooth functionality and printer functionality. I have no use for them, so I will disable them in the systemctl services and kernel modules. I will go into that later. There are preinstall packages that description "Deprecated libraries for the bluetooth protocol stack." I myself, feel like that is not even remotely necessary to be on any compute. The package manager GUI is excellent as well to see all the current packages with the option to easily delete them. I almost always delete
bluetooth functionality and printer functionality. I have no use for them, so I will disable them in the systemctl services and kernel modules. I will go into that later. There are preinstall packages that description "Deprecated libraries for the bluetooth protocol stack." I myself, feel like that is not even remotely necessary to be on any computer. There is a lot of functionality with the Gnome version as well. It has Kvantum Manager that allows changing the display of just about
anything. shadows sizes. 


Tails
I really enjoy Tails, this distro is very light weight and and has a lot to offer. It has persistence which allows the drive to bootup, save files and turn off. I more of less use this distrobution as my backup drive. Everything that I store on the usb, will be encrypted at startup and my files will always stay on the media. As long as the device is not physically damaged this distro would play a great role in backing up files.

Arch
I have only heard amazing things about the Arch distribution, if you are lucky enough to be running arch, I'm sure you're already aware of how its greatness. I unfortunately do not have enough Linux "know-how" to setup this distribution. I would recommend this distribution to the more advanced computer users. Pacman manager


DIFFERENCES

There are many different types of a specific distribution as well. I have a KDE Manjaro as well as a Gnome Manjaro. I will briefly go over the difference. KDE and Gnome are two different desktop environments that offer difference functionality. KDE is mainly in C++ and Gnome is mainly in C.
package manager: Aptitude(Debian), Pacman, HomeBrew, 
processes:
Manjaro has Htop an
Ubtuntu has 
encrypted HD Tails hands down has the best encrypted capabilities I feel. Ubtuntu comes in second because at bootup LUKS just works. Manjaro on the other hand seems to fail when it comes to bootup encryption.

